the snooze button seems like a remedy
for a bad morning
allowing you to give yourself some time
to nestle up in your cozy bed for a
couple of minutes
don't get into that trap this trick only
makes you groggier
and grumpier the snooze button makes
your body believe
you're going to sleep some more so it
obviously enters another sleep cycle
this way it starts releasing sleep
hormones that won't make you feel any
peppier
if you get out of your bed right after
the alarm goes off
your doziness won't last over 30 minutes
instead
getting up after even a short lion gets
you four
hours of sleepiness not a fresh start
to make this groggy morning even worse
check your phone while enjoying those
fake 10 minutes of a snooze
don't lie to yourself that you do it
just to keep abreast of the latest news
you must be checking social media
instead scientists say
this habit increases stress and anxiety
plus
tons of notifications might make you
feel like you missed out on some
important things yesterday
which subconsciously makes you feel bad
and doesn't add to your productivity
a shower instead can work wonders for
those who struggle through mornings
but taking a shower every single day can
be bad
too an everyday shower didn't appear
long ago
with the rise of built-in showers of the
20th century
people took the privilege of lathering
their bodies with soap
a daily shower with aggressive soaps
washes down the drain
all the body oils that keep harmful
bacteria away
many dermatologists say two or three
showers a week are enough
for our bodies to stay sanitary and
healthy
bonus advice three minutes are enough no
need to spend half an hour
under a cascade of steaming water
off to something you gotta do at least
twice a day
if you brush your teeth after breakfast
sorry you're doing it wrong
the thing is nasty bacteria gather in
your mouth overnight
and if you have breakfast before you
brush your teeth you share all those
morning sugars
and carbs with them when they thrive
your teeth
aren't happy if you just can't resist
the temptation to grab a cup of coffee
right after you wake up
wait 20 to 30 minutes after you've
finished
many foods and drinks weaken the surface
of our teeth
and brushing can make it even worse it's
best
to brush your teeth first and then enjoy
whatever you enjoy for breakfast
no need to brush them again after you
finish the meal
just rinse your mouth with water
coffee before 9 a.m is a no-go
cortisol the stress hormone doesn't
really get on well with the liquid
happiness
aka coffee this hormone isn't only
responsible for stress
but for sleep cycles too its levels
spike between 8 am and 9 am coffee
only adds to anxiety at this time so
it's best to grab one when the cortisol
level is at its lowest
cortisol also spikes between noon and
1pm
and between 5 30 and 6 30 pm try to stay
away from coffee during these periods
plus cortisol always increases by up to
50 percent
right after you wake up so you'll have
to wait about an
hour after you start a new day before
gulping down that liquid bliss
most people feel tired twice a day at 2
am
and 2 pm but since humans are the only
mammals who can delay their sleep
deliberately
most of us never have a midday nap at 2
pm
the perfect time to grab some coffee if
you still want to doze off for a couple
of hours
be careful make sure you have it no
later than at 5 pm
or you'll find it really difficult to
fall asleep that night
don't forget to open the blinds morning
daylight helps us release cortisol
naturally
so we're ready to start a new day
a morning workout is a great way to
charge your batteries as long as it's
kind of soft
aggressive movements can harm our spinal
discs that absorb water overnight to
rehydrate
by the way it explains why we're
somewhat taller in the morning
this process stiffens our spine so
flexing and bending too much
might be a bit dangerous workouts aren't
the only way to wind your body up
meditation is an awesome alternative if
you don't feel like doing anything of
this kind
try coloring or some other activity that
releases stress
taking time to relax is the key point
there are many foods you should stay
away from in the morning even though
they seem like breakfast classics
toaster pastries are packed with carbs
and sugar
so are nut spreads and breakfast cereals
such food as waffles pancakes
and buns made of refined flour have very
little nutritional value
fruit juice despite its healthy
reputation is usually just some sweet
water
plus it doesn't make you feel full
unlike real fruit
another bad guy in disguise is a granola
bar
which only boosts your cholesterol level
in fact
there's not much difference between a
candy bar and a granola one
make sure your breakfast contains
proteins carbs usually mean
energy crash a couple of hours later it
leads to blood sugar crash
which is bad for your productivity and
makes you feel sleepy
tired and grumpy banana protein smoothie
scramble or quinoa are good examples of
long
lasting energy food to keep you focused
for several hours
making your bed right after you wake up
isn't right too
when you do it you also make a cozy home
for tiny dust mites
your pillow blanket and sheets seem
clean and okay
but these little guys thrive just inside
they love dark spaces like your mattress
bad news
you can't see them without a microscope
but even if you don't see them
it doesn't mean they don't chill out in
your bed
so if you cover them up while making the
bed in the morning they're going to be
kind of grateful
for creating an idyllic environment for
them one thing they're terrified of
is sunlight now you've got a perfect
excuse
not to make your bed if you're too lazy
a good morning starts with a good
night's sleep
if you crave sweets before you go to bed
it's for a reason
chocolate soothes and calms down so it's
easier to fall asleep faster
watch out for caffeine even chocolate
has some small amounts of caffeine
but it can be enough to disturb your
sleep
anyway it's better to avoid food at
least one hour before you go to sleep
hearty meals will be too heavy for any
digestive system in the evening
evening food should be light it might be
some snacks
milk or cheese eating breakfast for
dinner
is really helpful for those who want to
fall asleep faster
bananas eggs and toasts are all rich in
potassium
protein and carbs all these elements can
help relax
and aid sleep so consider
having a brinner if you've had hard
times falling asleep
check the temperature in your bedroom
when it's too hot
it may be really hard to fall asleep
stick one foot from under the cover
and let it cool when it's a bit cold
you'll fall asleep faster
another trick you may try is to cover
yourself with a wet blanket
but this one is valid for tropical heat
nights only
also if you take a hot shower first and
then go to a probably
much cooler bedroom your body
temperature will significantly drop
you'll fall asleep as soon as your head
touches the pillow
make sure your pillow is neither too
high nor too low
if you like sleeping on your stomach you
may want to try putting your pillow
right under your stomach
to make it more comfortable the best
pillowcases are made of silk
your face literally glides on it so it
won't get wrinkled in the morning
hair doesn't rub against silk either so
it won't get messy
not all pillows guarantee sweet dreams
some of them make you sleep in an
unnatural position and don't support
your head the pillow itself isn't that
likely to cause
backache but it can possibly worsen some
of the old conditions
without a pillow you'll sleep in a more
natural position
and you'll probably feel better in the
morning if you find it almost impossible
to fall asleep
you're probably not tired if you fail to
fall asleep after 20 minutes
you should probably get up and do
something relaxing
some nice calming ambient music will do